Fill out this form to register your intent to complete this project.

Fill out this form to submit your solution to this project and qualify for the rewards.

	
Autonomous Navigation for Vehicles in Rough Terrain
Design and implement a motion planning algorithm for off-road vehicles on rough terrain.

Motivation
Automating a vehicle for off-road conditions poses different sets of challenges when compared to those tackled for on-road autonomous cars. The lack of road rules and lane structure presents the vehicle with unknown challenges it needs to deal with reactively. Various industries (Agriculture, Construction, Mining, Planetary exploration) are looking to automate tasks where humans are involved, especially in mundane tasks (alt: repetitive actions) and in some cases hazardous operational situations. A lot of these applications require a human driver to move the vehicle to accomplish the tasks. Automation of this motion can help free up humans for more sophisticated jobs and move them away from harm's way. It can also help with faster scaling and quick deployments to newer areas.

Project Description
Demo a robot/vehicle (AMR, front loader, excavator, curiosity mars rover) working in a cluttered field (off-road) moving from point A to point B. The field should have minor bumps and ditches (less than 0.25m from ground plane for 1m radius).

Suggested steps:

Start with Execute Tasks for a Warehouse Robot example.
Look at A* Path Planning and Obstacle Avoidance in a Warehouse to learn about replacing planner and connecting to Gazebo using co-simulation (Perform Co-Simulation between Simulink and Gazebo)
Choose an application area (e.g. agriculture) and corresponding type of vehicle
Replace warehouse in above examples with a scenario of chosen application. Realistic scenes close the gap between simulation and real-world, use/construct a world with an uneven field and scattered obstacles
Pick/create an algorithm for motion planning which ensures stability of the vehicle. i.e. takes care of roll, pitch, elevation constraints forced by the terrain
Implement the chosen/created algorithm as a MATLAB function and replace A* or PRM in the above examples
Add sensor to the vehicle for sensing the environment, such as Lidar or Camera. Read sensor data from gazebo Perform Co-Simulation between Simulink and Gazebo
Create map using sensor data (Easy: Insert lidar pointcloud to 3D map. Advanced: see example section below)
Integrate modules
Demo the vehicle using the pure pursuit algorithm to follow the path/trajectory from point A to point B using Simulink and Gazebo
Project Variations:

Different domain (mining, construction, etc.) and different vehicles (front loaders, digging machines, combines (agriculture harvesters)
Different path following controllers such as model predictive controller (MPC)
Advanced research work:

Bring in uncertainty handling to the planning algorithms
Deploying on to a platform and demonstrating advantage of simulation
Background Material
Here are some links to background material that you can use as a starting point for your project.

Example:

Custom planning infrastructure
Co-simulation with Gazebo
Simulate Mars Rover with Gazebo (Video)
Different Gazebo worlds
Popular planners
Comparison Table
SLAM with Computer Vision Toolbox
Structure From Motion
Stereo SLAM
Monocular Visual SLAM.
SLAM with Lidar Toolbox
Map from Lidar data
Map using segmented Lidar data
Suggested readings:

[1] Pivtoraiko, M. and A. Kelly. “Efficient Constrained Path Planning via Search in State Lattices.” (2005).
[2] Howard, T. M. and A. Kelly. “Optimal Rough Terrain Trajectory Generation for Wheeled Mobile Robots.” The International Journal of Robotics Research 26 (2007): 141 - 166.
Impact
Expand the frontiers of off-road exploration and navigation using mobile robots for precision agriculture, firefighting, search and rescue, and planetary exploration.

Expertise Gained
Autonomous Vehicles, Computer Vision, Robotics, Image Processing, Mobile Robots, SLAM, UGV, Optimization

Project Difficulty
Bachelor, Master's, Doctoral

Project Discussion
Dedicated discussion forum to ask/answer questions, comment, or share your ideas for solutions for this project.

Proposed By
lgavshin

Project Number
209
